welcome to the man of recaps this is
wandavision it starts with mondo
maximoff and vision living the happy
suburban life
inside the 1950s television show it's
classic boss coming over for dinner
shenanigans and wanda's got to use her
bewitched style powers to cook a big
dinner luckily her neighbor agnes is
there to help always comes over at just
the right moment
but occasionally there are super surreal
creepy weird moments as whatever reality
this is starts to break down what
reality is this what's happening
that's the big mystery of the whole show
in episode 2 we're in the 60s a direct
reference to bewitch the plot of the
sitcom episode is one envisioned doing a
magic act as part of the talent show to
fit in with the neighborhood but weird
things happen like wanda finds a toy
helicopter that's in color and then a
radio starts tripping out someone's
voice is coming through
trying to reach wanda what's happening
oh it's so surreal
and at the end of the episode whoa honda
suddenly pregnant congrats but just then
outside someone's coming up out of the
sewer grate
a guy in a beekeeper suit but wanda just
says no and oh the whole thing rewinds
they're back inside
is wanda controlling this place then
everything goes to technicolor because
next episode it's the 70s all these
episode intros by the way are hilarious
homages to the tv shows of the era
it's just great this episode they're
dealing with wanda's unexpected and
accelerated pregnancy more surreal
things keep happening though and
vision's starting to notice he
eventually brings up his suspicions to
wanda but oh it just cuts right back
that part edited out but pretty soon the
baby's coming and wanda gives birth to
not one but two
twin boys yes twins running her family
remember her twin brother pietro
quicksilver was killed by ultron just
then geraldine mentions that
the first reference to the real world in
fact her necklace is the sword logo that
was on the beekeeper and the helicopter
at the edge of town the aspect ratio
changes to the real world and oh boom
charlene's blown out of there there's a
whole operation going on what is
happening
the next episode starts not in an old
sitcom but in the real world as the
actress who played geraldine is coming
back from the snap
yes in spider-man far from home the blip
was played for laughs but here we get a
glimpse of the chaos and confusion as
half the population suddenly comes back
five years later turns out this woman is
an agent of sword he has much like
shield they went out of their way to
make their name a cool acronym and turns
out she is monica rambo
yes daughter of maria rambo from captain
marvel and tragically she finds out her
mom died during the five years monica
was snapped away now apparently sword
does a lot of space stuff and monica
rambo was one of their star astronauts
but after the blip they've got a monitor
or more she's grounded for now so she
sent out a minor mission with the fbi
where she meets agent jimmy wu from
ant-man who's perfected his online magic
university skills they're at the town of
westview new jersey which is where
wanda's sitcom is taking place when
monica tries to go into it there's some
invisible barrier and
whoa she's sucked in so now they're
bringing in a whole operation including
darcy from
thor oh i did not think she'd ever be
back apparently she finished her
internship and is a full-blown scientist
now
in fact it's her who recognizes the
signals coming out of this place our old
school television waves
she puts on wandavision they're watching
it so we finally get some answers to
what's going on and we see where the
helicopter the guy in the beekeeper's
suit and the voice on the radio came
from working theory wanda has snapped
and is using her powers to take the
whole town hostage as she builds a
perfect sitcom life for her and vision
it's an oversimplification of events but
yes
they're calling the area inside the hex
because it has six sides but also that's
what a witch does
and the hex isn't an illusion it
physically turns anything that goes
inside to fit the sitcom reality so next
episode as you might imagine were in the
80s
and just like wanda's pregnancy was
accelerated the twins are growing up so
fast they're kids already tommy and
billy meanwhile vision is a pretty smart
guy and he's starting to notice more and
more that this reality is not
normal he uses his mindstone powers to
free this guy from the spell and it's
like oh she's in my head she's
controlling all of us please make her
stop
so vision comes home like wanda what's
going on you got to stop this wanda
doesn't want to hear it so she rolls the
credits but
vision keeps talking over them they're
having an argument while the credits
roll it turns into a big shout out where
they're both floating in the air
in the end one is like look i don't even
actually know what's happening or how
i'm doing it now earlier this episode
their dog sparky died and there was talk
about if juana can bring people back to
life in here i mean apparently she did
it with vision and at the end of the
episode the doorbell rings it is her
brother pietro quicksilver
but not the one from the mcu it's the
actor from the fox x-men movies what
multiverse shenanigans we thought we had
some idea of what was going on but who
knows
next episode it's the early 2000's it's
malcolm in the middle time pietro has
settled right into his role as the wacky
uncle and wanda's like i'll just go with
it i guess and so while the halloween
sitcom plot's going as usual the
vision's continuing his investigation to
find out what's actually happening
vision finds the edge of the hex and
tries to go through but outside it's not
letting him he's like being sucked apart
back into it when wanda finds out she
shuts down the whole town oh big burst
of magic energy
she's expanding the borders of the hacks
to get him back in and not just vision
she's expanding them by a lot oh
sucking the whole sword base into it
turning it into a carnival so next
episode in the 2010s it's very modern
family one is taking a mental health day
for herself gonna stay in bed and relax
vision finds himself at the circus where
he meets up with darcy and frees her
mind he's trying to get home to wanda
but sitcom-style shenanigans keep
getting in their way eventually he's
getting one of the sitcom-style
interviews and it's like wait how'd i
even get here everyone out of my way
i can fly monica rambo's still outside
in fact she contacted some
friends and had a big tank maid that can
theoretically go into the hex it does
not work though this magic is incredibly
strong which she's like look i'm going
in on foot then now after she was first
blown out they saw the magic affected
her dna they're like yo you can't go
back in there it's incredibly dangerous
who knows what'll happen to you but what
happens is she powers her way through
and somehow when she comes out
she's got glowy eyes yeah she can see
things real weird now it's unclear what
her powers are but she got super powers
she makes it over to wanda like yo i
know you're not a bad guy please you
gotta stop this nosy neighbor agnes
comes to the rescue getting wanda out of
there but there's something definitely
wrong in this house and the basement is
really creepy the aspect ratio changes
and she's got like a gothic
castle down here and agnes reveals that
she has magic
too she's a witch real name agatha
harkness
we go through a tv style montage with a
hilariously catchy song
as she explains it was agatha all along
to clarify the whole hex was not agatha
all along that was wanda but it's crazy
powerful magic agatha has never seen
anything like it so she
came here and played along to try to
find out how she did it fake quicksilver
was agatha though it was just a random
guy in the village that agatha was
controlling to mess with wanda and they
used the actor from the fox x-men movies
just to mess with us
she does have wanda's kids captain
though so wanda tries to blast her but
magic doesn't work here agatha's put up
magic runes all along the room and only
the witch who cast the rooms can cast
magic in the area it's like well wanda
you don't know anything about magic do
you let's go on a trip through your
memories to figure out how you did this
we go back to wanda's childhood in
sokovia where her happiest memories were
watching old american sitcoms with her
family that's why her reality was sitcom
style because nothing bad ever happens
in sitcoms because of course in her real
life
bad stuff happened all the time her
whole family was blown up when she was a
kid
we thought juan's powers came from the
mind stone when hunter experimented on
her but agatha's like no you were born a
witch then we get to see what happened
with wanda and the mind stone at hydra
because of her powers it reacted to her
in some special way well what's going on
she sees the silhouette of a future self
we get a scene at avengers headquarters
right after her brother was killed by
ultron where vision comes in to console
her wanda is overcome with grief for her
brother but vision's got some choice
wisdom for her that's gonna be on all
the throw pillows from now on
but what is grief if not
love persevering as we know she
envisioned soon fell in love only for
him to be killed by thanos
another loved one violently taken from
her but before he died vision left wanda
notes to go to west view new jersey she
drives to the foundations of a new house
and pulls out to note
it was a house that vision bought for
them to grow old in
oh it's too much to handle want wanda
loses control and her grief erupts out
of her turning westview new jersey into
sitcom land
somehow she was able to create a new
alive vision in here
and that's how this all started so now
outside akatha's got her kids hostage
she's gone full-on witch outfit she's
like yo this is chaos magic and only one
person can use it
you are the scarlet witch there's no
runes to stop her anymore so wanda
blaster but it's like yo
thanks i want to absorb your magic
that's my whole thing meanwhile we find
out hayward's dastardly plot he does
still have the vision's body and his
plan is to bring it back to life but
without a personality under government
control to be a super weapon and with
the energy from wanda's hex he's finally
able to do it
the white vision is here so he
interrupts the witch fight wand is like
vision is that you and he's like no i'm
here to kill ya but just then wanda's
vision comes into saber it's like
hey hon uh things are weird so it's a
double vision fight and a witch fight
agatha pulls out a creepy looking spell
book
the dark hold it featured prominently in
agents of shield season four though
we'll see if that's actually canon and
it has a whole chapter on wanda the
scarlet witch so there's a lot wanda
doesn't know i've got to freeze the
minds of the townsfolk around her and
they're like wanda please you gotta let
us go this is torture so one goes to
take down the hex but without the hex
vision and her kids don't exist so she
keeps it up for now but while it was
open the military got in and the family
strikes an incredible style pose
yes her kids by the way have superpowers
the ones fast like quicksilver and the
other's got mental powers hayward has no
mercy for kids gonna shoot them but
monica rambo jumps in front
and oh her new powers somehow stop
bullets then who's this busting in to
smash him with the truck
it's darcy to save the day meanwhile the
visions take a break from fighting to
have a philosophical conversation it's
like yo my programming is to kill the
vision but it's like hey how do you
define the vision cause like i was just
created from chaos magic arguably you're
more of the vision because like you were
built out of his body wanda's vision is
able to unlock white vision's memories
and it's like oh
no i'm the vision he's got to think
about this for a while so he peaces out
for now meanwhile the witch fight has
escalated to crazy levels flying around
shooting magic at each other wanda's
being kind of dumb because every time
she hits agatha she just absorbs it and
in fact wanda's missing with like most
of her shots but turns out she wasn't
missing she was hitting the walls of the
hex to create runes
wow what a fast learner so now agatha
without powers wand is able to suck all
of her energy back in
and it blasts her into a new outfit it's
her true form
the scarlet witch one uses her mind
manipulating powers to create a mental
prison for agatha as she turns her into
her character the nosey neighbor agnes
so wanna goes home with her family as
she starts attracting the hex it's a
tearful farewell with her kids who even
though they weren't real real we're
real and then it's an even more
heart-wrenching farewell with vision as
she has to say goodbye and so they hold
each other as the hex ends and this
vision is erased so now back in the real
world one is like hey sorry for all this
i'm gonna fly off and come to terms with
my grief and figure out what my new
powers are in the mid credit scene
monica gets a visit from
a scroll yeah remember captain marvel
it's like hey girl long time no see we
want to talk to you come on up to space
with me then in the after credit scene
it's a beautiful cabin in the wilderness
where wanda's just hanging out but while
she's living she's doctor strange astral
projecting studying magic
learning the dark hold and at the end
she hears a voice calling out to her
it's her sons
where's this going what's gonna happen
that's where wanda vision comes to an
end
if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tvn movies and if you love
this recap check out the join button and
support the channel as a member